+++
title = "Reviving the Net?"
date = 2021-12-27
description = "network reconstruction project"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["techology", "social media"]
+++
The internet is dead. The intranet is forever. I'm Gen Z so maybe I haven't lived in the heydays of the internet but I was in a lot of pre-social media internet communities through NationStates. The spirit of these communites was a lot different from today's mass social media sites. Unlike a website like Twitter or Reddit - nobody really produced anything for virality. People were a lot more creative, they'd make projects and all, they'd intensively apply themselves towards building really intensive works of art and that stuff. You don't really see that on the new internet anymore. Everything now is about virality - creating the next mass egregore that will incapicate the population or you are a sheep in the herd.

Probably a lot of the people that now use Twitter or Discord would do better in this enviroment. There's only so much entertainment value that comes from reading or posting jokes/shilling the next meme ideology. Everything becomes a meme and you get status by hoping onto new memes and riding the wave until its over. Is it really even the internet anymore? You are pretty much being served content from massive data centers which network with each other. The ironic thing is making your own site is easier than ever these days. Pretty much every static site generator is much lighter, more pleasant to use (ok not every static site generator), and more customizable than Twitter or any social network. Sure its hard to work on your own theme, but the preexisting templates work fine. Also, hosting is free with GitLab Pages, surge.sh, or Vercel. Might make a tutorial if people actually read this blog (lol). 

And that's the thing right, there's no longer a network of people actually reading stuff from the IndieWeb. For the most part the IndieWeb is just disenchanted tech utopians setting up sites that eventually go inactive due to a lack of interest. There just isn't a network of consistent people viewing these sites, commenting, etc which doesn't bring a lot of motivation to keep producing content. On Twitter, Reddit, etc these networks do exist and by leaving these platforms you effectively cut yourself off from these networks and are forced to come back.

So for the indie web to become a real alternative we need to consider how these networks can spring up again. I think the current tools are quite bad. RSS is intended for mailing lists where the creator *sends out* posts to a large audience - a lot like a radio or a newsletter. People now however are accustomed to more freeform modes of finding content, especially with social media feeds and stuff, so only old timers and nerds use them. I really think it would be useful to restructure the UI around RSS reader and make it more amenable. Alternate protocols like ActivityPub is a good step in the right direction, if it actually interconnected anything and was easy to setup.

I feel like it would be cool if you could respond to blogs with your own post made on markdown and somehow automatically inform the person you are responding too, get a back and forth. In general there just needs to be better ways of finding content that isn't just link hopping (through deadlinks) or feeds and ways of interacting beyond comments that make the blog less of a mere publishing tool and a method to actually connect with people and *network* - after all this is how all good content is made and how people stay active. With SSGs it would be pretty easy to accomodate a lot of different content types, modes of posting and create an enviroment where people can be most productive instead of what a company forces on them. Another idea is you could see "curators" curate content from the indie web and post them on newsletters on RSS, Twitter, Instagram, Reddit, etc. idk